Steps to create maven project
1.Open Eclipse
2.click on new project
3.Search for Maven
4.Select Maven Project, click on create a simple project click next
5.Enter group id and artifact id - artifact id will be our project name in eclipse.  
6.Click on finish.

Steps to install MYSQL
1.Search MySQL in google.
2.Click on MySQL i.e., “https://www.mysql.com"
3.Click on downloads
4.Click on MySQL community downloads.
5.Click on MySQL workbench.
6.Click in go to download page.
7.Download win, MSI installer (Bigger size one/Offline).
8.After downloading file click on run.
9.click all steps for next.
10.Select Strong password and encryption.
11.Give username as "root" and password as "root"
12.Complete the installation by selecting next and install.

Steps to install JDBC
1.Create a Maven project.
2.Select pom.xml
3.Open maven repository by searching for it in google.
4.Search for MySQL, click on MySQL connector/j select version with most downloads.
5.Copy dependency and open pom.xml
6.Create <dependencies>"Paste the dependencies"</dependencies>
7.Create a package under src/main/java
8.Create class and start writing programmes.

Steps to install Hibernate
1.Create a Maven project.
2.Select pom.xml
3.Open maven repository
4.Search for MySQL, click on MySQL connector/j select version with most downloads.
5.Copy dependency and open pom.xml
6.Create <dependencies>Paste the dependencies</dependencies>
7.Search for hibernate core, click on hibernate core relocation select version with most downloads.
8.Copy dependency and open pom.xml
9.<dependencies>Paste the dependencies</dependencies>
10.Under maven project, under src/main/resources, create a "META-INF" folder, search for new file type xml and create a file "persistence.xml" inside the folder.
11.Copy the persistence code from notepad and paste it under source in persistance.xml file.
12.Remove Two lines under cache at the beginning.
13.Save the file.
14.Create a package under src/main/java.Create class and start writing programmes.
Steps to add Tomcat Server
1. Select java EE in perspective.
2. Select servers in show view
3. Click on “no servers, click here to add server”
4. Under apache select tomcat version 9.0
5. switch from eclipse to chrome and in google type “download apache tomcat 9.0”
6. Select the first link then click on win64 zip download
7. After downloading the file extract the file.
8. Now switch back to eclipse and click on browse folder
9. Go to the folder where you have extracted the downloaded tomcat zip
10. Select the folder click on next and finish.


Steps to create Servlet Project with hibernate
1.Create a Maven project and don’t click on create simple project click on next.
2.In search field search for ‘apache.maven’ select last one or web-app one and click on next.
3.Enter group id and artifact id, artifact id will be project name and group id is company name.
4.If src/main is not present right click on project click on build path, configure build path and select all.
5.Go to maven repository search for java servlet and copy most downloaded dependency.
6.Paste the dependency in pom.xml
7.Create html file inside Web-app folder and write html code.
8.Create a package in src/main/java and create a servlet class.
9.In web-inf edit web.xml add servlet tag and servlet mapping tag.
10.Now to create hibernate follow steps to create hibernate i.e., add dependencies.
11.Inside ‘web-inf’ create a folder ‘classes’ and inside that create ‘META-INF’ folder and inside that create ‘persistence.xml’ file.
12.Create packages for dto, dao and controller and start writing program. 

Spring Boot Packages
Mysql
Spring JPA
Spring mail
Web app
Lombok
Web dev tools
